% -*- root: main.tex -*-
\section{Lab session 3}

In the previous section several designs of experiments (Doe) were implemented
and analyzed in order to determine which was the best given some quality
measures. Thus, for this case a latin hypercube design was used to generate 40
experiments which corresponds to one helicopter. Each helicopter was thrown 2
times from 5 to 6 meters height, 2 falling times for each throw were properly
registered in seconds by different subjects.

\subsection{Analyzing Data}

The collected data was further analyzed in order to determine the observation
noise, and other correlations of the variables used by the model. Initially the
4 falling times were plotted, in~\cref{fig_EX1_EX1,fig_EX1_EX2} are illustrated
two scatter plots which represents the measurements from two observers for the
same throw and from the same observer for different throws. Between different
observers there is not a lot of noise as in the measurement for different
throws. despite of that fact, in a first setting a Gaussian Process model was
fitted using only two falling times, the average time of the first throw and the
average time of the second throw.

In that setting the leave one out function had to be modified in order to
retrieve the two observations for a same set of parameters or helicopter, then a
$Q2$ quality measure was used to measure the prediction power of the proposed
model, however the $Q2$ was very low, approximately $0.1$, the recommended value
to state that the model was correct was at least $0.5$, the model is better when
the $Q2$ is close to one.

One of the assumptions for the $Q2$ to not be as high as expected was that the
gathered data was very noisy and didn't expose the correlations between some of
the variables and the falling time, according to some prior assumptions made,
for example, that the wing angle and the falling time were linear increasingly
correlated, the wing length to tail ratio was also expected to have a linear
correlation with falling time. In~\cref{fig_wtr_vs_obs2} the linear correlation
between the ratio and the falling time is not as clear as
in~\cref{fig_wtr_vs_avg4}. While in the first figure only the measurement of one
observer was plotted in the second figure the average of all four measurements
was taken, exposing a better linear correlation, as expected.

\begin{figure}
	\begin{subfigure}[h]{.5\linewidth}
		\input{../lab3/Ex1O1_vs_Ex1O2.pgf}
		\caption{Comparison between the two times registered for one throw.}
		\label{fig_EX1_EX1}
	\end{subfigure}
	\begin{subfigure}[h]{.5\linewidth}
		\input{../lab3/Ex1O1_vs_Ex2O1.pgf}
		\caption{Comparison between the two times from different throws.}
		\label{fig_EX1_EX2}
	\end{subfigure}
	\caption{Plots of time measurements made by two observers(obs)}
\end{figure}

\subsection{Fitting a GP model with the average}

Another Assumption made to explain the $Q2$ value was the simplicity of the
model, initially a GP with a Matern32 kernel was used. Thus, after modifying
the time variable to be the average of the four measurements and adding some
other 2 RBF kernels the $Q2$ measure increased in 0.4 giving exactly a value of
$0.58$ approximately. The $Q2$ measure was enough for us to follow with the
optimization stage. With the new data was not necessary to modify the leave one
out function to delete the repeated point with the other time observation. In
the figure \ref{mloo_vs_real} a plot is made showing the real falling times
against the GP predictions, following a linear tendency which also is an
evidence that the model is suitable to make predictions.


\begin{figure}
	\begin{subfigure}[h]{.5\linewidth}
		\input{../lab3/wtr_vs_fte2o1.pgf}
		\caption{Wing length to tail ratio against one of four falling times.}
		\label{fig_wtr_vs_obs2}
	\end{subfigure}
	\begin{subfigure}[h]{.5\linewidth}
		\input{../lab3/wtr_vs_t.pgf}
		\caption{Wing length to tail ratio against average of four falling times.}
		\label{fig_wtr_vs_avg4}
	\end{subfigure}
	\caption{Plots of time measurements given the wing tail ratio.}
\end{figure}

\begin{figure}[h]
	\begin{subfigure}{.5\linewidth}
		\centering
		\scalebox{0.8}{\input{../lab3/mloovsreal.pgf}}
		\caption{Actual falling time values vs. \emph{loo} predictions.}
		\label{mloo_vs_real}
	\end{subfigure}
	\begin{subfigure}{.5\linewidth}
		\centering
		\scalebox{0.8}{\input{../lab3/mlooresidualsvsreal.pgf}}
		\caption{\emph{Loo} residuals vs. mean predicted value.}
		\label{mlooresiduals_vs_real}
	\end{subfigure}
\end{figure}

\paragraph{}
For further model validation the standardized residuals of the leave one out
predictions where also computed and plotted against the mean predicted
value(standardized for this case), the plot shows something not very similar to
a linear tendency according to a normal distribution $\mathcal{N}(0,1)$ as will
be expected for better fitted models.